---
title: "inbox"
---

## Culture and survival
- In real life, belief is an instrument to do things, no the product. 
- The purpose of our perception system is not to produce the most accurate representation of reality; rather than one most useful for survival. Your eyes orient the best possible way and get out of trouble. They are sensors of the most accurate representation of electromagnetic spectrum.
- There is nothing like rationality of a belief, only that of action. We don't have enough ground to discuss irrational beliefs. We do with irrational actions.
- A culture survives multiple millennia, not because of its rationality but the survival of those its followers. It survives because it aided those who survived through cohesion. Such group cohesion might also be responsible for trust with commercial transaction with remote member of the community. 
- Opinions are cheap until people take risks for them. You don't listen to what people say, you look at their actions, and what they are putting on the line.
- It's only irrational if it hinders ones survival at an individual, collective, tribal, or general level is deemed irrational.
- So when we look at religion, and some extent superstitions, we should look at the purpose they serve. Not the notion of belief in its scientific definition.

## Culture/Language is transmitted by imitation
- Language is not invented by a committee. Instead, after people working really hard to communicate with each other - language just happens.

- How did hunters and gatherers know how to make an arrow head. Trial and error must have been involved, and less successful groups imitating the techniques of successful ones.

- The fidelity of transmission of culture, determines whether a given society advances, stagnates or declines.

### Its difficult to figure out what makes one successful
It's difficult to figure out what precisely makes one successful. For instance the success of a star NBA basketball player might arise from his:
- choice of sneakers
- sleep schedule
- intensive practice
- pre-game prayer
- special vitamins
- taste for carrots
 A naïve learner can’t  tell all the causal links between an individual’s practices and his  success. As a consequence, learners often copy their chosen models  broadly across many domains. his copying often includes the model’s personal  habits or styles as well as their goals and motivations, since these may  be linked to their success. This “if in doubt, copy it” heuristic is  one of the reasons why success in one domain converts to influence  across a broad range of domains.

### Examples of culture being useful to its followers 
- I’m reminded of the Romans using augury to decide when and where to  attack. This always struck me as crazy; generals are going to risk the  lives of thousands of soldiers because they saw a weird bird earlier  that morning? But war is a classic example of when a random strategy can  be useful. If you’re deciding whether to attack the enemy’s right vs.  left flank, it’s important that the enemy can’t predict your decision  and send his best defenders there. If you’re generally predictable – and  Scott Aaronson says you are – then outsourcing your decision to weird  birds might be the best way to go.
- Rationalists always wonder: how come people aren’t more rational? How  come you can prove a thousand times, using Facts and Logic, that  something is stupid, and yet people will still keep doing it?
    - Henrich hints at an answer: for basically all of history, using reason would get you killed.
    - A reasonable person would have figured out there was no way for  oracle-bones to accurately predict the future. They would have abandoned  divination, failed at hunting, and maybe died of starvation.

```
people are likely to imitate the techniques, styles, choices of other successful people even if they may not look rational to an observer.
```

```
Causality is hard to determine. So people tend to try imitate successful people across a broad range of domains. This copying often includes the model’s personal  habits or styles as well as their goals and motivations, since these may  be linked to their success. This “if in doubt, copy it” heuristic is  one of the reasons why success in one domain converts to influence  across a broad range of domains.
```

### Examples of influence of successful people.
People will fear and obey authority figures like kings  and chieftains, but they give a different kind of respect (“prestige”)  to people who seem good at things. And since it’s hard to figure out  who’s good at things (can a non-musician who wants to start learning  music tell the difference between a merely good performer and one of the  world’s best?) most people use the heuristic of respecting the people  who other people respect. Once you identify someone as respect-worthy,  you strongly consider copying them in, well, everything: 

The immense range of celebrity endorsements in modern societies shows  the power of prestige. For example, NBA star Lebron James, who went  directly from High School to the pros, gets paid millions to endorse  State Farm Insurance. Though a stunning basketball talent, it’s unclear  why Mr. James is qualified to recommend insurance companies. Similarly,  Michael Jordan famously wore Hanes underwear and apparently Tiger Woods  drove Buicks. Beyonce’ drinks Pepsi (at least in commercials). What’s  the connection between musical talent and sugary cola beverages? 

## Peer learning - learn from people who are like you
If you are a man, it is  probably a bad idea to learn fashion by observing women. If you are a  servant, it is probably a bad idea to learn the rules of etiquette by  observing how the king behaves. People are naturally inclined to learn  from people more similar to themselves.


## School and results
When KCSE and KCPE results are out its typical to find school publishing a hard to verify list their top performers. With intention to create an image of success, prestige.
Publisher have no incentive to validate the claim of advertisers.

 School benchmarking is another example.

 ## What to write
 Of all the subjects available to you as a writer, the one you know best is yourself: your past and your present, your thoughts, your fears and your emotions.  Yet its probably the subject you try hardest to avoid.

Whenever I'm invited to visit a writing class in a school or a college, the first thing I ask the students is: "What are your problems? What are your concerns?"

The English have long excelled at a distinctive form of travel writing—the article that's less notable for what a writer extracts from a place than for what the place extracts from him. New sights touch off thoughts that otherwise wouldn't have entered the writer's mind. New sights touch off thoughts that otherwise wouldn't have entered the writer's mind. If travel is broadening, it should broaden more than just our knowledge of how a Gothic cathedral looks or how the French make wine. It should generate a whole constellation of ideas about how men and women work and play, raise their children, worship their gods, live and die.

## If being good is the goal, learning is how you get there.
I’ve always been excited by the prospect of learning faster. Being good at things matters. Expertise and mastery give you the career capital to earn more money and enjoy lifestyle perks.

## Nobody sees the effort they make to get there. Only the outputs.
Huge leaps of insight emerge from prior thought/practice. When you look at someone stroke of genius you only see the finished product. You don't see the hairs they pulled before that sudden realization was possible. In part, it's because our epiphanies don't feel like happen as a natural consequence of prior efforts - but they do.

The things you are supposed to find in your head by brainstorming usually don’t have their origins in there. Rather, they come from the outside: through reading, having discussions and listening to others, through all the things that could have been accompanied and often even would have been improved by writing. 

## Pilot
Before getting signed by fox and creating `Family Guy`, Seth MacFarlane invested 6 months into two pilots `The life of Larry` and `Larry and Steve`
> I spent about 6 months with no sleep and no life, just drawing like crazy in my kitchen doing this pilot