---
title: Product thinking
---

It is troubling to see software as a system that performs a list of functions.
Software is a product that changes the world somehow. Meaning that it improves how the users do things making their lives easier.

## What to build
If you look in the world around you you'll find people that are in pain e.g. unsatisfied, worried, confused, unhappy. You pick one of this people, describe their problem and design a hypothesis solution that eases their pain and maybe makes them happier.[^1]

The goal is to make your users happy.

You measure this by outcomes (What your users do, feel and say)
- Find your product (acquisition)
- Try it (Activation)
- They use it (Activation)
- They keep using it (Retention)
- They recommend it to others (Referral)

For a product to be successful, your customers must find it, try it, use it, keep using it, and say nice things about it.

 Notice users go through this progression with your whole product AND they’ll need to this for every new feature or capability you release into that product.

The other thing that makes a product great if you are the one that built it is the return on investment that you get on building and selling it.f you’re a non-profit, you’ll celebrate moving your mission forward, and getting more donors and volunteers. I call all this stuff impact.

## What makes a product great
    Easy to use
    Solves a problem
    Fun
    Delightful
    Saves me time

These are all things that the people who buy or use your product say [^2]

## Product thinking
Jeff Bezos' on focusing on outcomes [^3]

  Product thinking moves your focus to outcomes and business impact. 

## Service provider model
    The service provider model separates those responsible for product outcomes from those responsible for product delivery. 

    Service providers make money selling time and materials. The service they provide is the product. 


[^1]: The Mystery of a Shrinking Story  
  https://www.jpattonassociates.com/the_shrinking_story/  
  _People or businesses want software to achieve some goal or objective or solve some problem. For them the software is a tool that makes the actual work done to achieve that goal or solve that problem go better. Other tools might be paper forms, telephones, or other physical things used by people in support of a process that helps them achieve their goals or eliminate their pain.The software we’re building is a tool. The quality of a tool, from the user’s perspective, is measured based on its ability to effectively help reach their_

[^2]: The Mindset that kills product thinking  
  https://www.jpattonassociates.com/mindset-that-kills-product-thinking/
  _The other thing that makes a product great if you are the one that built it is the return on investment that you get on building and selling it.f you’re a non-profit, you’ll celebrate moving your mission forward, and getting more donors and volunteers. I call all this stuff impact_

[^3]: Jeff Bezos' 2017 letter to shareholders  
  https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312517120198/d373368dex991.htm  
  _We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value we create over the long term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend and solidify our current market leadership position. The stronger our market leadership, the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate directly to higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger returns on invested capital.  
  Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in terms of the metrics most indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue growth, the degree to which our customers continue to purchase from us on a repeat basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we move to establish an enduring franchise._