---
recall: bullet+
---

# TDD - Kent Beck

- What implication differentiates value objects from other objects :: All operations on value object must return new objects. i.e. Value objects are immutable.

- How does one tell if two value objects are equal :: Value objects should implement and equals method.

Every item is perfectly in place, the floor is spotless, all is order and cleanliness. The character, however, has never made anything. "Preparing has been his life's work. He prepares, then he cleans up"

- Why is clean code that works a worthwhile goal ::  
  -> Its a predictable way to develop - You know when you're done, without having to worry a bug trail  
  -> It helps you learn from the code you write - If you only slap together the first thing you think of, then you never have the time to think of a second better thing  
  -> It improves your user's lives  
  -> It helps your team mates count on you, and you on them.

- What are the to main principles of TDD ::  
  -> Write new code only if an automated test has failed  
  -> Eliminate duplication

- What order of programming does the rules imply ::  
  -> Red - Write a failing test, perhaps which doesn't even compile  
  -> Green - Make the test pass. Don't be afraid to commit sins in the process  
  -> Refactor - Eliminate all the duplication you made when merely making the test pass
- What is the motivation to do TDD - take on additional work of witting automated tests, take tiny little steps when their mind is capable of large whoops of design :: Courage. To manage that legitimate fear - this is a hard problem and I can't see the end from the beginning. Fear comes along with its other relatives:
  -> Fear make us tentative (uncertain, hesitant)
  -> Fear makes us want to communicate less
  -> Fear make you shy away from feedback
  -> Fear make you grumpy (bad tempered and irritable)

So the question becomes how we face a difficult situation and:

- Instead of being tentative, begin learning quickly as possible
- Instead of being clumpy, communicate more clearly
- Instead of avoiding feedback, search out helpful, concrete feedback

- TDD is a an awareness of the gap between what? :: decision and feedback in programming

- Software unlike other discipline is only constrained by imaginationCreate business value within a short time.

- What should you think of when writing a failing test ::  
  -> Imagine the interface you wish you had  
  -> Think of how you would like the operation in your mind to appear in code  
  -> Include the elements in code that imagine will be necessary to calculate the right answers

- What is the main goal when you have a failing test :: making the test green without worrying the sins you commit to get there.
- When should you refactor :: after the test has passed
- What is the purpose of refactoring when doing TDD :: To remove duplication.

Clean code that works is out of reach even for the best programmers some of the time, and out of the reach for most programmers (like me) most of the time. Divide and conquer, baby. First, we'll solve the "that works" part of the problem. Then we'll solve the "clean code". This is the opposite of architecture-driven development, where you solve the "clean code" part, then scramble around trying to integrate into the design the things you learn as you solve the "that works" problem.

- What two strategies to use to quickly get to green ::
  -> Fake it - return a constant and gradually replace constants with variables until you have the real code.
  -> Use obvious implementation - type in the implementation

- By analogy, when triangulate, we generalize code when we have two examples or more. We briefly ignore the duplication between test and model code. When the second demands a more general solution, then and only then do we add a general solution.

- What do we do when we have an object that doesn't behave the way we want it to? :: We make another object with the same external protocol but different implementation. (This object is called an impostor)

How are we going to represent multi-currency arithmetic? The most difficult design constraint is that we want most of the code in the system to be unaware that it potentially dealing with multiple currency. One possible strategy is to immediately convert all money value into a reference currency. However this does not allow exchange rates to vary easily.

The solution is to Create an object that acts like a money but represents the sum of two moneys. One good metaphor is `Expression`, as in `2 + 3 * 5`. Money is the atomic form of the expression. Operations result in expressions. One of which will be a `Sum`. Once the operation is complete, the expression can be reduced to a single currency given a set of exchange rates.

- The more stress you feel :: the less testing you will do.
- The less testing you do :: The more errors you'll make.
- The more errors you make :: The more stress you feel. Rinse and repeat.

### Should running of tests affect one another

No. Tests should be able to ignore one another completely. If you have one test broken, you want only one problem.

This isolation has a convenient implication that tests are order independent

### What is the convenient side effect of isolated tests

You achieve high cohesion and loose coupling

To get isolated tests you work hard to break you problem into little orthogonal dimensions, so that setting up the environment for each test is easy and quick. Isolating tests makes you compose solutions out of highly cohesive, loosely coupled objects.

## What should you test?

Before you test, write a list of all the tests, you know you,ll have to write.

The first part of our approach to dealing with programming stress is to never take a step unless we know where our foot is going to land.

First put on the list, examples of every operation that you know you need to implement.

### What question should you ask yourself when you sit for a programming session?

What do I intend to accomplish.

### Why is tracking things we intend to accomplish in our head a bad strategy?

You'll trap yourself in a positive feedback loop.

The more experience I accumulated,

the more things I knew might need to be done. The more things I knew might need to be done,

the less attention I had for things I was doing. The less attention for things I was doing,

The less I accomplished. The less I accomplished,

The more things I knew might need to be done.

### How did Kent Beck escape the positive feedback loop causing by holding things he wanted to accomplish in his head?

I got into a habit of writing down everything I wanted to accomplish over the next few hours on a slip of paper next to my computer. I had similar lists but with a weekly or a monthly scope, pinned on the wall.

When a new item came up, I would quickly and consciously decide whether whether it belonged on the "now" list or the "later" list. or whether it really need to be done at all.

### Why shouldn't we just go ahead and implement tests instead of outlining them first?

You'll have a lot of tests broken and far away from a green bar.

## When should you write asserts?

First

### Where should you start building a system?

With stories you want to tell about the finished system

### Where should you start writing a bit of functionality?

With the tests you want to pass with the finished code

### Where should you start writing a test?

With the asserts that will pass when its done.

### Which test should you pick next from the list?

Pick a test that wil teach you something and that you are confident you can implement.

### Which test should you start with?

Start by testing a variant of an operation that doesn't do anything.

The first question you have to ask with a new operation is, "Where does this belong?". Until you have answered this question you won't know what to type for the test.

### How can you answer "Where does this operation belong?" question

Use a Stater Test where

- The output should be the same as the input
- The input should be as small as possible

### How do you keep a technical conversation from straying out of topic?

when diverging idea arises, add it to the list and go back to the topic.

Sometimes programming relies on breakthroughs. Most programming, how-
ever, is a bit more pedestrian. I have ten things to implement. I become an
accomplished procrastinator about item number four. Retreating to humming-
bird conversation is one of my ways of avoiding work (and maybe the fear that
goes along with it).
Whole unproductive days have taught me that at times it’s best to stay on
track. When I’m feeling this way, I greet new ideas with respect but don’t allow
them to divert my attention. I write them down on the list, and then get back to
what I was working on.

### How do you leave a programming session when you are programming alone?

Leave the last test broken.

Finish a writing session in mid-sentence. When you come back, you look at the half sentence and you have to figure out what you were thinking when you wrote it. Once you have the thought thread back, you finish the sentence and continue. Without the urge to finish the sentence, you can spend many minutes first sniffing around for what to work on next, then trying to remember your mental state, then finally getting back to typing.

### How do you test error code that is unlikely to be invoked?

Invoke it anyway with a special object that throws an exception instead of doing real work.

Let's say you wanted to test what happens to ur application when the file system is full. We could go to a great length and create many big files until the file system is filled up or we could fake it. Fake it doesn't sound dignified, does it. we'll simulate it.
Here's our crash test dummy for a file.

```java
public void testFileSystemError() {
  File f= new File("foo") {
    public boolean createNewFile() throws IOException {
      throw new IOException();
  }
};
try {
  saveAs(f);
  fail();
  } catch (IOException e) {}
}
```

### How do you test that messages are sent to the object in the correct sequence.

Keep a log in a string, and append the string when a message is called.

## Green bar patterns

Once you have a broken test. You need to fix it. If you treat the red bar as a condition that need fixing as quick as possible. Then you'll discover you can get to green quickly.

### What is you first implementation when you have a broken test?

Return a constant. Once you have the test running, gradually transform the constant into an expression using variables. Fake it till you make it.

### What make fake it powerful?

Psychological - When you have a green bar. You know where you stand. You refactor from there with confidence.

Scope control - Programmers are good at imagining all sorts of future problems. Starting with one concrete example and generalizing from there prevents you from confusing yourself with extraneous concerns.

### How do you most conservatively drive abstraction with test?

Abstract only when you have two or more tests.

### How do you test for expected exceptions

Catch expected exceptions and ignore them. Failing only if the exception is not thrown.
```java
public void testMissingRate() {
    try {
        exchange.findRate("USD", "GBP");
        fail();
    } catch (IllegalArgumentException expected) {}
}
```

### Can you drive development with application level tests?
