---
title: User stories
---

    It's not easy to explain complex concepts so that users can understand and act on them
    We know what we mean by our words so we expect others to know it too

people are quick to accept that they get the point and move on to the next thing. The mi


User stories are one of the core concepts of Agile. 
Stories replace documentation and handoffs with a dynamic interplay of conversation, experiments, implementation, and feedback.

When learning how to write stores its likely to land among the websites of Project management tool providers. You'll probably find a template you like and go straight ahead and fill the backlog with stories. Without team cohesion agile is guaranteed not to work.

A key aspect of agility is that we don’t just lock in on some idea and head there, but rather we adjust both our direction and our target as we learn. 

If your habit is to define a large project, load a bunch of stories in a tool, head there, and measure “conformance to plan”, you’re missing a chance. 

Agility is instead built around an evolutionary approach: ship something simple (but end to end), try it, learn, and repeat – a little better each time around. User stories support this as a lightweight way of reminding us what to do. 

I like to know why I'm building service. When learning, It's  a Facebook clone when following a YouTube true. After sometimes, I got bored. I learnt that I should trust my knowledge and build something I'd not shy away from telling other people to use.

It's kind of weird that I've recommended building software to someone (Actually it's not weird, people recommend things to other people everyday. You know if you were using Ubuntu you wouldn't have to worry about finding cracked Office software. You wouldn't even need an Antivirus. And its a lie linux is not hard to use). I remember telling my friend unprovoked why I use Jumia Pay. When I build something I think of pleasing a user so that he recommends it to their friends. What i really care about now, is if someone uses my product finds it helpful. considers using it again. Uses it again.And maybe even recommends it to others. 

I view my software as some beautique located in the 7th floor in a city that depends on referrals. In the sense that, business located in the first floor, like banking halls are easy to spot when bypassing. When first released. it's not something that potential users will easily find. It's not the first thing that they think of when they face the problem you are trying solve. Think of you users as busy people who have a lot going in their lives. Some TV shows, social media to catch up. Kids, relationships, car and work. So at first, you will have to find your first customers, and convince them to use your product.

Two weeks ago it was my daughter’s birthday and we wanted a cake.
Our family has our own baker—a person we call to make our cakes.
Now, we’re not rich or afraid to make cakes ourselves. It’s just that
Sydnie, our baker, makes incredibly fantastic-tasting cakes. We don’t
know exactly what culinary magic she wields to pull it off, but when‐
ever we ask our kids what kind of cake they want for their birthday,
the shout "We want a Sydnie cake!" seals the deal for our baker.
To get a cake, I call Sydnie on the phone. She’ll ask who the cake is for
and what the occasion is. Two weeks ago I told her Grace was turning
12. "What’s Grace into?" she asks. We talk a bit about what Grace likes
and what she was thinking of. We also talk about what shapes of cake
pans Sydnie has, and what kind of cake design is feasible for her to
have ready in time. We agree on a bird-shaped cake this time.
That’s how telling a story works. Sydnie asked lots of who, what, and
why questions. She asked about the context—where and when we’d be
serving the cake, and how many people would be there. During the
conversations, we considered a few different options. We talked long
enough to build shared understanding. And, because we’ve gotten lots
of cakes from Sydnie, we already have some shared understanding
about how they’ll look and taste when we get them. If we didn’t, we’d
have wanted to see some pictures or taste some cake, and the phone
wouldn’t have worked well for that.

People are scared of learning. Things that require planning. Uncertainty. We are naturally drawn to smaller tasks which we can accurately estimate outcomes and cost. And which we have overwhelming evidence of success in the past.

## why stories
1. Direction / focus
2. Collaboration
3. Measurable

## Feature shopping
When the team don't know their goals so they go around collecting ideas from competitors

### Characteristics of good stories
follow the INVEST mnemonic
1. Independent - Should not overlap, order/containment dependences. 
2. Negotiable - not an explicit requirement.  say what not how. co created by developers and other stakeholders. leave room for negotiation in order to work out a solution that takes everything into account.
The requirement itself is communicated from customer to programmers through conversation: an exchange of thoughts, opinions, and feelings.

Here's a common misconception about agile methods. It centers on the way user stories are created and flow through the development activity. The misconception is that the product owner (or business analysts) creates user stories and then put them in front of developers to implement. The notion is that this is a flow from product owner to development, with the product owner responsible for determining what needs to be done and the developers how to do it.

In terms of coming up with stories, what this means is that they are always something to be refined through conversation - and that developers should play an active role in helping that definition.

- spotting inconsistencies and gaps between the stories
- using technical knowledge to come up with new stories that seem to fit the product owner's vision
- seeing alternative stories that would be cheaper to build given the technological landscape
- split stories to make them easier to plan or implement

This is the Negotiable principle in Bill Wake's [[user-stories.INVEST-properties]] test for stories. Any member of an agile team can create stories and suggest modifications. It may be that just a few members of a team gravitate to writing most of the stories. That's up to the team's self-organization as to how they want that to happen. But everyone should be engaged in coming up and refining stories. (This involvement is in addition to the developers' responsibility to estimate stories.)Unpack arguments with spread operator
3. Valuable - should help the user, purchaser, builder, sponsor reach a specific goal (IRACIS) increase revenue, avoid costs, improve service, meet regulations, create options, build reputation
4. Estimable - it's possible to make judgement about the size, cost, time.
     well understood and stable
     Estimates are guesses. 
     Estimates with tight error margins are costly.
     It's hard to accurately predict how much time/cost an activity would take. 
     Use analysis an intuition
     estimates help us make decisions about cost against value.
5. Scalable (small) - can be generalized or refined more valuable, testable, estimable. 
 A story’s headline can be fulfilled in many ways – a manual solution, a minimal solution, or a full-featured solution
6. Testable - one for which, given certain inputs, we can agree on the outputs. The criteria used for testing should be subtly defined. Adjectives such as fun, easy to use, best, appropriate, just, all combinations, any of, don't matter which
challenges - outputs not function of inputs, infeasibility (all combinations), 
Stories are well enough understood that we can describe examples and behaviors. 

## Stories are not explicit requirement of what a system should do
One thing that a user wants the system to do[^1]. A discussion to have about a desire or a need a user of a stakeholder of a system has. As opposed to a requirement. It does not describe what we intend to build. This come from the conversation we have as a team about the story. We write acceptance test to serve as specifications and to validate that we got what we wanted.


At the beginning of the iteration, the customer communicates to the programmers what she wants, by telling them how she will confirm that they’ve done what is needed. She defines the acceptance tests that will be used to show that the story has been implemented correctly. 

Teams who are not yet very experienced with these ideas often want to try use cases, spreadsheets showing calculations, sketches of proposed window layouts, even multi-page documents looking much like conventional specifications. These may be useful in rare cases, but looking back over the years I have almost never found this kind of document to be ideal. Even for quite complex situations, confirmation using examples, preferably automated, works better. You may find some paper or computerized details to be valuable, but in my experience, they are more likely to slow you down. I’d suggest starting with card, conversation, confirmation, and adding in other documents only if they are clearly needed.

The programmers implement the story, and they also implement the acceptance tests. (Some teams build tools that let the customer enter the tests herself, and other teams have QA people or testers who help with the job. But one one way or another, the acceptance tests get done


[^1]: The Mystery of a Shrinking Story  
  https://www.jpattonassociates.com/the_shrinking_story/