---
title: Why I quit Moovebeta
description: Moovebeta is a house of card built on a web of lies. A crisis of leadership
---

I planned to leave Moovebeta in December 2021, after being their for just three months. The company hired on a low salary, promising to raise it after a 3 month probation, an offer I gladly took having been out of employment for close to a year. Now it required that we deliver an MVP to see a raise.

I hesitated afraid my savings would deplete in a few months considering I had moved into a costlier house a month before and purchased a new laptop. I stayed and began to look for openings.

Fast forward to April 2022, the CEO asked that we quit development and facilitate an acquisition of ImpalaPay, a money transfer provider claiming to have the services we were trying to build, and to have processed millions of transactions for Airtel Africa.  The merger idea came from a management consultant who the investor had hired a fortnight before to steer the company, fearing we'll never deliver a working application. ImpalaPay had cash flow problems and since their goal was similar to ours the merger looked logical and  their CEO and ours were eager to see it through. Our CEO excitement mattered little though, the new consultant, remember its him who initiated the merger, had turned her into his servant. Not she had much say before, she relied on two Adanian staff, to guide her given her little technology knowledge.

In the technical due diligence report I warned that ImpalaPay staff could be overstating their software. Still, three weeks later the merger went through. They were keen to withhold information about how their system works and how they make money.

In May, Moovebeta inherited ImpalaPay staff. ImpalaPay technology lead advised the CEO to hire more staff, install security measures and make several other purchases, like a huge smart TV, to ensure everything ran smoothly. The idea we'd soon have to handle a lot of transactions and we need to be prepared. A marketing and back office team for our newly acquired merchant payment API gateway and ImpalaPayUk (an android app to remit funds from U.K to Kenya. One that  made from a template of intended for SawaPay, mostly likely purchased from India)

Come June, It's discovered the ImpalaPayUk app only works for a single Kenyan channel, Safaricom's MPESA. Also it required us to pay a monthly subscription of US $120 to the ID verification provider. The credit card gateway provider also required us to transact at least US $1000 a month to keep the account open. Zero revenue but more pilling costs.

As of now, many details about the ImpalaPay switch are not clear to anyone in the team. What countries are supported? What collection and disbursement channels are supported in these countries?

Pressure is piling on the C.E.O. Money is being burnt and nothing to show for it. ImpalaPay promised a lot of things including coming along with big  customers and transactions would be rolling once the merger completed. Merchant enrolment is slow and unclear.

The lie get bigger each day. And now there's many people entangled in it since marketing went ahead and convinced some startups to use our API. Everyone at my level in hierarchy knows it. But no one's is saying it. Our CEO still glooms confidence, and it makes me uncomfortable. Could she be in oblivion? Or is she just stupid? Time will tell. In the past, she only acts, as a reaction to her bosses (investor and consultant) nagging. At this moments, she calls a meeting to tells us how they are not happy. And how they will sack the entire team. And how others are doing more with fewer resources.

I not certain how long they can hold they hold their breath. Me though, I'm about to faint and want out quick.