---
title: What make a product great
description: What keeps me using my favourite apps
---

    I am so excited to discover that I can switch Code Spell Checker language to en_GB without altering system settings.
    I now colour with pride. Wtf is color.

I tried to come up with a list of software that I would imagine substituting and what makes them great to me.

First goes Visual Studio Code. It's:

- Free
- Simple and Easy
- Easy on memory and processor.
- Powerful, I use it for most of computer writing: computer programming and text.
- Extendable (a huge list of great plugin that make it even greater)
- Debug support for my favourite language JavaScript. I have tried anything else so I can't tell what others are doing. I'm good where I am. I feel productive with VS Code

I have this dogma that I use for tools that things many alternatives, you find one that works and stick to it until it fails you. You'll save a lot of mental energy doing this.

Second, Jumia Pay:

- Saves me money - Jumia Pay doesn't charge transaction fees for airtime purchases; has rewarded me with a 3% to 10% cashback each time I have used it.
- Simple
- Quick dispute resolution (When I purchased airtime and they failed to remit it. They were quick to refund the entire amount). I can't say the same for Jumia marketplace though.

Gmail:

- Free, with no ads
- Stupid simple
- Logical in every way
- I love how it sorts and groups emails that I receive into primary, social and promotions. And span. This save one time.
- Great unsubscribe from mailing list feature

pdf2docx.com, jpg2pdf.com family. I have used these a lot:

- Free
- simple and straight forward
- Saves time
- works almost always

Figma:

- Free
- Fast and easy on resources
- I don't have to install it
- Powerful
- Great community (market position)
- Easy to reason about. Photoshop intimidates me.

The point, If you ask your users why they love it. None of them will say things like:

- It's built with vue.js
- It was delivered in time

And rarely beautiful user interface.

One of Agile manifesto principles is:

`Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software`

This makes perfect sense when you build software for money. But if software id your product, not the service of building it, then your highest priority better be outcomes, like people trying it, using it ans continuing to use it. Because those are the things that save and earn your company money. [^1]

[^1]:
    The Mindset that kills product thinking  
    https://www.jpattonassociates.com/mindset-that-kills-product-thinking/  
    _You can deliver what you said you would every sprint, and it may not matter if the work doesn’t result in the outcomes your organization predicted. Doing agile by the book may result in you being a great service provider, but not a successful product creator._
