---
title: Why I don't purchasing clothing online
descriptions: My approved fears
---

I needed to buy some soccer jerseys so I visited a neighbouring sport wear shop. After browsing for a minute, I ask the price of an Arsenal jersey that's in display. The seller is reluctant to price it, he offers that I try it on me the size first. 

<!-- Being old enough, I know how this goes, they trick into trying a wear, they exaggerate how good looks it looks on you, and then slap with an illogically high price. Having already spent lots of time there, you be easily coercing into bargaining and finally making purchase. -->

I insist to know the price first. (Nothing beats the guilt) I'll beat myself over it that I wasted time for myself and the seller if at the end I didn't buy it. I fear coercion too. I like to make decision on my own. Or buy it for a price that I don't like. Or worse, realize I didn't like the t-shirt after making the sale. I find returns, even when accepted, exhausting so I try to make the decision right the first time.

When he finally says it I recoil in horror. It's more that I imagined. It's probably because I've seen jersey prices on Facebook ads before. Or just because I didn't like the shirt that much. Like every other kenyan, I leave promising the seller that I come again when I have money.

When I get home, I open Google, search for jersey sellers in Nairobi. Visit websites of some of them comparing the prices. Unlike most jersey customers, I don't support any European clubs so I am just looking for a dull jersey that fits. I noticed soccer jerseys are good with sporting activities, and don't fade unlike cotton t-shirts. And they look good in general. And have quality stitches.

It's the Juventus and Bayern's 2021/22 always shirt, that caught my eyes first. So I now google 'Juventus 2021/22 away jersey' and land several results. I find the cheapest shop and ask them though Whatsapp whether they have it in store, If I can pick it later in the day. I also proceed to confirm the price. To my surprise they quote a price twice that listed on their website. So I abandon the chat and contact the next shop. These one confirms they have it and at the quoted price. I tell them I would come to pick at the store one day.

A day later, i binge google "Bayern 2021/22 away shirt". After browsing some website, I realize the most previous season jerseys have their prices cut, given most fans will go for their club most recent jersey. And european clubs are already releasing next season jersey. At this point, I could get a better offer if I kept looking. I finally settle on PSG 2021/22 jersey retailing for Ksh 800 (~USD $7) at Fanbase.co.ke

One day when leaving work, I visit Fanbase.co.ke shop to buy that PSG jersey. I quickly notice that the shop was too small to host all the inventory their website displays. Luckily they have the shirt I want on stock. Immediately I mention I want the medium sized one, the seller advises that it'll be too big for me. I ask myself,  I then try out the small sized one. That too looks big on me. It also doesn't hide my collar bone the way I like. When I tell the seller, he finds another one, which has a better collar. This though still big for me, looks just fine and settle for it pay and leave.

    How I would have known this when ordering online? My fear that I would be disappointed with clothes purchased had paid off.

The first time I wear the jersey, I fear it looks big on me but ignore. A fortnight later, I took it to the tailor and now it looks perfect.

I still wanted to buy more jerseys, this time I visited Rolis clothing, jersey outlet, a seller I had contacted earlier. This one has a bigger inventory. Also better attitude. Maybe due lesser sales. I notice the collar and size issues on their shirts too. I assume most fans don't care that much. After nagging her for a while, she suggests I look for myself. I don't tire. I finally find a perfect PSG shirt from years ago. Surprisingly, it costs just Ksh 500 (~USD 4.2). Am so happy that I ask her whether they could be stocking similar sized shirts. Not so lucky this time.

