---
title: How to stay motivated
description: Escaping inertia, Decision making, Taking action, Accelerated learning. Lean.
---

At the deepest level, the brain is an inference[^2] engine, that weighs evidence and comes to conclusions.

His Bayesian theory of Goodwill establishes three mental processes that compete to determine your action. 
1. One prefers motionlessness; if you have no reason at all to do anything, stay where you are
2. The second is reinforcement learner; do what has brought you most joy/reward in the past
3. The third is your concious calculations about what the right thing to do is

All of submit evidence to basal ganglia, the brain structure that chooses action. It resolves its conflicting evidence about the highest-value thing to do, comes with some hypothesized highest-value task and does it.

Take for example, if you spot a crocodile near you, the brain region that processes that stimuli will say "I have VERY strong evidence that fleeing the crocodile would the best thing to do right now". Brain regions processing competing stimuli will submit their evidence for their preferred tasks, and the basal ganglia weights the evidence using Bayes and flees the predator.

To understand this theory, It's important to group brain into perception and cognitive systems. 

Your perception systems are like this - they weigh different kinds of evidence to determine what you are seeing are hearing (process stimuli).

The cognitive systems are like this: they weigh different kind of evidence to discover what beliefs are true or false. Dopamine affects these systems in predictable ways. Willpower affects decision making in the same way - it's representing the amount of evidence for a hypothesis.

Stimulants increase dopamine in the frontal cortex. This makes you more confident in your beliefs (a cocaine addict believes he can outrun a police car) and sometimes your perceptions(hallucinations). But sometimes it also improves willpower(eg. Adderall helping people study). These are all functions of increasing the apparent level of evidence attached to beliefs.

There is a priori on muscular immobility. You are less likely to be willing to perform an activity that requires movement of large muscles.

Sufficient evidence doesn't necessarily make you do something,but overwhelming evidence sometimes does. For example many alcohols feel that they need to quit alcohol but they can't. They only succeed after they hit the bottom, things go so bad that the evidence against using alcohol gets beyond reasonable doubt. The reinforcement system is always more convinced in favour of alcohol than the intellectual system is convinced against it - until the intellectual system becomes disproportionately strong.

[^1]: Toward A Bayesian Theory Of Willpower - Scott Alexander  
  https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/wZGpoZgDANdkwTrwt/toward-a-bayesian-theory-of-willpower  
  _I think this theory matches my internal experience when I'm struggling to exert willpower. My intellectual/logical brain processes have some evidence for doing something ("knowing how the education system works, it's important to do homework so I can get into a good college and get the job I want"). My reinforcement-learner/instinctual brain processes have some opposing argument ("doing your homework has never felt reinforcing in the past, but playing computer games has felt really reinforcing!"). These two processes fight it out. If one of them gets stronger (for example, my teacher says I have to do the homework tomorrow or fail the class) it will have more "evidence" for its view and win out._
  I think willpower is best thought of as a Bayesian process, ie an attempt to add up different kinds of evidence._
  _If I'm right, lack of willpower should be thought of as an imbalance between two brain regions that decreases the rate at which intellectual evidence produces action. This isn't a trivial problem to fix_ 
  _My model has several different competing mental processes trying to determine your actions. One is a prior on motionlessness; if you have no reason at all to do anything, stay where you are. A second is a pure reinforcement learner - "do whatever has brought you the most reward in the past". And the third is your high-level conscious calculations about what the right thing to do is._
  _These all submit "evidence" to your basal ganglia, the brain structure that chooses actions. Using the same evidence-processing structures that you would use to resolve ambiguous sense-data into a perception, or resolve conflicting evidence into a belief, it resolves its conflicting evidence about the highest-value thing to do, comes up with some hypothesized highest-value next task, and does it_
  _The economic metaphor here is cute, but the predictive coding community uses a different one: they describe it as representing the "confidence" or "level of evidence" for a specific calculation. So an alternate way to think about lampreys is that the flee-predator region is saying "I have VERY VERY strong evidence that fleeing a predator would be the best thing to do right now." Other regions submit their own evidence for their preferred tasks, and the basal ganglia weighs the evidence using Bayes and flees the predator._ 
  _I think this theory matches my internal experience when I'm struggling to exert willpower. My intellectual/logical brain processes have some evidence for doing something ("knowing how the education system works, it's important to do homework so I can get into a good college and get the job I want"). My reinforcement-learner/instinctual brain processes have some opposing argument ("doing your homework has never felt reinforcing in the past, but playing computer games has felt really reinforcing!"). These two processes fight it out. If one of them gets stronger (for example, my teacher says I have to do the homework tomorrow or fail the class) it will have more "evidence" for its view and win out._  
  _My model has several different competing mental processes trying to determine your actions. One is a prior on motionlessness; if you have no reason at all to do anything, stay where you are. A second is a pure reinforcement learner - "do whatever has brought you the most reward in the past". And the third is your high-level conscious calculations about what the right thing to do is._ 